Question: Postmodernism When i try to look up what it means I do n't exactly understand what whoever is explaining is going for Please explain like I'm five.

Answer: " Post- " means something that came after , and usually refers to a movement that is a response to a previous movement . Postmodernism , thus , refers to a movement following modernism , and is a response to modernism . Modernism itself is poorly defined and varies across mediums , but one overarching theme is that there are universal truths . In the visual arts ( painting , sculpture ) , this was often manifested by a rejection of figurative art , which was seen as a falsehood . ( I 'll talk primarily about the visual arts b / c that 's my forte , but modernism and postmodernism are also big concepts with somewhat different connotations in literature , for example . ) So you have artists during this period waxing poetic about how the only " true " art is that which acknowledges only the materiality of the art medium and does not try to represent any image . For example , abstract expressionism and minimalist sculpture were celebrated ( by artists , not necessarily by the general public ) for showing the true form of the painting or sculpture medium , rather than trying to falsely represent an image . As modern art is a loosely defined movement , postmodern art is also loosely defined and takes on many different forms , but it can be largely understood as a rejection of modernism . Whereas modern art is largely preoccupied with form and aesthetic , postmodern art prioritizes conceptualism at the expense of form . Conceptual art can be seen as a precursor as well as a specific form of postmodern art ( given that art historical movements are not actually as distinct as we like to think and do n't always have clear beginnings and endings ) - for example , Yoko Ono 's * Grapefruit * , which is literally a collection of instructions for " viewers " to perform sometimes impossible actions , literally has no form and exists as concept only . John Cage 's * 4'33 " * , in which a pianist sits at a piano and plays nothing for 4 minutes and 33 seconds , is another example of postmodernism in that the " artwork " is in the site specificity of the performance hall and the ambient sounds , rather than any music played by the musician . Site specificity is a major concept in postmodern art , which manifests in installation art , performance art , and happenings ( all of which take into consideration the venue where the art is located or performed ) . Another manifestation of postmodernism is the rise of identity politics in art , which is a rejection of the idea that there is one universally " human " experience . So in the postmodern period , there 's been a rise of art dealing with issues surrounding feminism , queer identities , and race , that seek to address personal experiences rather than " universal " ones . Another form that 's common in postmodern art is appropriation , which is the use and recontextualization of preexisting images to create new meaning ( collage is an early form of appropriation art ) . These are only some examples of postmodernism in visual art , but there are many more and it also manifests in different ways in other areas . As I understand it , postmodern literature has very different characteristics than postmodern art , for example . Metatextuality , or literature that references itself and/or other existing literature , is a common aspect of postmodernist literature .