Question: What causes wind ? I checked out the Wikipedia article but require a little more extensive layman's / five year old explanation . I am curious ! Explain like I'm five.

Answer: It 's very cool actually , that the reason is so very down to earth : Gas , metal , glass , any substance we know of , does consist of very small things . They are either " atoms " , or rather ( in nearly all cases ) , " molecules " , which are little constructs that consist of atoms . These things move around and bounce against each other . Imagine a group of kids that are standing together on a school yard : They can be pretty tightly packed and do n't take much space then . But if they move around , even if they try to stay tightly packed while they are moving , they will use more space . The atoms / molecules behave the same , and that 's not a metaphor but literally true . And the hotter a substance is , the more its little things move around . Well , they move around in a gas , while they stay locked in place in a metal or other hard substance , but they still shake around , and so they as a group still need more space . The colder a material / gas is , the less space it takes . The hotter it is , the more space it takes . Actually , it 's only the latter . In everyday life , even in winter , we are still in a quite " hot " situation compared to the coldest possible situation ( which is -273.15 degrees Celsius ) , so the universe itself would say : " The hotter a substance is , the more space it takes . " It would not say that the colder something is , the less space it takes . Well , and on Earth , the sun shines here , does n't shine there , which changes the temperature of the air and hence the room the air takes . Heated ground , cold ground , volcanoes , cities , and other sources of cold / heat affect the air temperature , too . You should imagine the atmosphere of Earth to be like an ocean , for that 's quite what it really is , only it is gas instead of a liquid . And if you put some water on a flat water surface , it will of course spread around ( and also cause the other water to move around accordingly ) . When air ( or water , for that matter ) takes more space , it is as if someone had poured more air at that space , and the ocean of the atmosphere has to move around accordingly , because it aims to become flat and calm again ( which it never is , but it also never ceases to try ) . And that 's wind : Air moving around because temperature changes made parts of it smaller or made other parts of it bigger , and the ocean of the atmosphere tries to calm down , so it has to move stuff around a little .