Question: What happens to all the food that is n't sold before the best before date ? It ca n't all be thrown away ? Please explain like I'm five.

Answer: I used to be a manager at a Dollar General and had to deal with this stuff on ( almost ) a daily basis . To be honest , it depends on the type of store you 're talking . If you 're thinking Walmart , they 're probably on top of it . The stores I worked at were always underfunded and understaffed , and admittingly food was n't always thrown out by the date on it . ( Hell , I went back there a month or so ago to get cookies and picked up cookies that had gone out of date before I had started working there , in 2013 . Considering I quit in August , I was surprised to find they had evaded me until I tried to buy them ! ) The food is supposed to be thrown out . The official store guidelines ( and what I imagine other stores do similarly ) say to black out the UPC code , open the container , and dump them into the trash . I 'm completely sure it 's a deterrent to stop dumpster divers , animals , etc . from getting at it , although it hardly ever stops anyone with the drive for it , especially considering most stores just throw all food into the same garbage bag . I saw a comment regarding pouring bleach on the expired product but I ca n't ever imagine anyone doing that - it 's a safety hazard of all sorts . We always had to dispose of any chemicals / cleaners in very specific ways . If it 's a product from a vendor , then it 's a different story . We would have vendors from places like Lays , Coke , Pepsi , Nature Valley , etc come in and rather than damaging out their items , we would hold them in the back and they would be required either to take them for credit or to trade them for the same item . Our machine actually did n't let us take them out of inventory . Saddest thing , though ? Throwing out food was n't limited to out of date food , but food that was taken out of inventory . Christmas or Halloween candy that did n't sell ? Yeah , straight down the trash . Believe it or not you ca n't move some of that shit even at a 90 % discount .