Question: Gödel 's incompleteness theorems I 've read the wiki on it and I still do n't have even the most basic grasp of what they are . Explain like I'm five.

Answer: The first thing you need to know is that proofs require assumptions . If you never assumed something , the only things you could prove would be " tautologies " , or statements that are true because of their structure . For instance , " a bird is a bird " . This sentence reveals nothing about birds or the world . You could replace " a bird " with anything , even stuff that does n't exist , and the statement is still true . Once we start assuming things , we can start making interesting statements about the world . For instance , if we assume that every number in our system has a number that can add with it to get zero , then we can start talking about subtraction and negative numbers , and we can start solving equations like x + a = b. These statements that we assume are commonly referred to as axioms if they are about numbers , or postulates if they are about geometrical objects . We have intuitions about the way our number system works . We make those intuitions explicit with the axioms we choose . With me so far ? Now , we can take our axioms and our logic and start constructing proofs . Proofs are anxiety producing for many geometry students . The good thing is that whenever you establish something to be true using a proof , then that statement MUST be true in your world with your axioms . Now , is the converse true ? Is EVERY true statement provable ? This is where the first incompleteness theorem comes in . It says that no matter how many axioms you come up with , so long as ~~there are n't infinitely many ( according to a special definition)~~ they are all decidable , then there will always be at least one true arithmetic statement which is n't provable . The second one goes even farther . It says that if you take a finite set of axioms , and you explicitly write down the rules of logic and take THOSE rules as axioms , then you can never decide WITHIN that system whether or not the system has no contradictions in it . Meaning that as soon as we formalize our logic , we can not show that our logic does n't break down at some point . Please extend and correct as necessary .