Question: What benefits are there to dilluting US federal power and emplowering US state governments ? I have asked people the following question and did n't receive any real explanation or what the pros and cons are . I started wondering if I just do n't understand well enough . Explain like I'm five. 

Answer: The concept of federalism is that an issue is usually best handled by those closest to it . Power is decentralized into multiple smaller areas , ones that are made up primarily of those who care about and are affected by a particular issue , to be resolved by those same people . Virginians know more about issues that affect Virginians , and Californians know more about issues that affect Californians . Those groups retain their own authority to handle issues and policies for their own citizens . Only issues that a smaller level can not do on its own , such as national defense , are given to the larger level of government . The goal of this is to create not a one - size - fits - all way of doing everything , but many ways of doing things , specific to those groups of people who want things done their way . In addition it creates what is commonly called the " 50 laboratories " theory in that each state can experiment with the best ways of doing something for their people , and other states can look at how others are doing something to see if maybe it will also work for them . This system is overall far more dynamic , able to respond to the specific and varying needs of their own groups , and offers more opportunity to see what works and what does n't . It also gives individuals much more of a say in how their own issues are handled . One of the criticisms of the electoral college is the oft cited disparity between the " weight " an individual voter in California has vs. one in say Wyoming , due to the differences in populations vs electoral votes . Well in federalism , this is n't supposed to be that big of a deal since the vast majority of issues that affect Californians are supposed to be handled at the state level by Californians for Californians in the first place . The amount of power a federal government that they might night have voted for ( and had their population weight work against them in the federal elections ) has over them is n't supposed to be very large in the first place .