Question: Overclocking I have a FX 6300 and I was comparing it to an i5 . I read that if the FX 6300 is overclocked , it is basically the same thing and cheaper What is it , is it worth it , and how do you do it ? Explain like I'm five.

Answer: I used to work in the qualification and failure analysis department at a large silicon manufacture in the PC world . Let me start by explaining how they are made because that will help explain what overclocking is . So Intel basically makes only a few different actual CPUs . When they release a CPU they basically are always trying to make the top most tier . They will make die revision x with 8 MB of cache , and a clock speed of 3.8GHz ( as well as an assortment of other features ) . If everything went perfectly all chips would turn out this way , but during manufacturing there are almost always problems . Sometimes the problems are so bad the chip gets thrown away . Sometimes its " fixable " . Cache is hard to get right consistently so sometimes some of the 8 MB is damaged . If that happens they disable some of it and suddenly its an i5 not an i7 . Too much gets damaged and its an i3 .. etc . If the damage is in some of the more advanced features they might turn off good cache to make it match the model they are trying to make . Say one of the bus lines is fubar it might become an i3 with 8 MB of functioning cache , but they will disable the cache to keep the products consistent . Now , once they know what features the chip supports , they start to test those features to make sure the processor works . If it can run at 3.8GHz while producing less than a certain level of electrical noise , using less than a certain level of power , producing less than a specific level of heat , etc then great ! They sell it as 3.8GHz and make tons of money . If it ca n't meet those requirements then they slow the processor down and try again . If that works they can sell it as a 3GHz processor .. etc . So now , on to over clocking : When they first start producing a chip its very likely that buying a slower speed processor will result in a very large amount of excess heat or noise being produced because if it could perform well in the first place it would have been sold as a higher clock . After a few months / years though they usually get really good at making the processors so the lower quality chips are actually fully functional chips just disabled in a way so they can sell the speed you want . One thing with overclocking that most overclockers do n't known about / understand is that it also creates electrical noise issues which can do things like corrupt memory . Systems are sold with a certain number of allowed memory errors per day basically . Google 's study showed that memory errors can be expected at roughly 1 per module per month or so ( iirc ) . Overclocking can drastically increase this number , even if there are no heat issues . So if you buy a huge fan ( or in the case of my former employer , make a cooling chamber that can keep everything at an ambient temperature of 2C ) you can still encounter an elevated error rate and possible data corruption . " buy a slow cpu and a huge fan , then over clock the hell out of it " works great for a gaming machine , but if you are dealing with data you need stability on you should really , really check your system out to ensure that it works as expected before putting sensitive data on it . TL;DR ; Overclocking is like running your car at a higher RPM all the time . It seems fast but can make equipment life much , much shorter .