Question: How were movies edited before computers ? Computers have been around for a while but how were movies with special effects and FX sounds edited before computers ? Explain like I'm five.

Answer: The editing was splicing and cutting actual film and of course the problem with working with film is that you ca n't see the footage as easily as you can today . All film reels had 12 minutes of footage . So when you popped a film reel into a camera you had 12 minutes of footage . When that ran out you popped in another film reel . Because of this Directors had to be super organized to make sure they did n't waste film because 35 mm film is really expensive . This is n't the case with new cameras as everything is digital and stored on card or hard drives . When they filmed a scene they could n't really see if the shot was good or not afterwards because it was film . The film had to be processed in order to view it . So after a weeks filming all the important people would go into a theater and watch all the " dailies " . That 's every scene shot from the week , they would pick out which scenes are good and which are n't . They would know from this which scenes were fuck ups and note it down to save time in editing . That 's why they have the clipper board at the beginning of every scene . The green screen was done by not using green screen because there were no computers but by actual people painting photo realistic backgrounds . The old days they painted massive backgrounds on set . After a while they figured out they could project the necessary scene from film onto a smaller size screen and paint the background where it needed to be painted and somehow composite the background onto a new film reel along with the original footage . If you watch the first batman movie this was the technique used . Everything was filmed on set or a studio lot and all the backgrounds , the bat cave etc . were paintings composited onto the film frame . Because all of these old movies were filmed on film , this is the reason we can watch them in 1080p / Blu Ray . For the first time is history I can watch E.T in it 's highest resolution to date apart from the first time it was shown in cinemas . The reason this is because film is optical and not digital . The lens narrowed the light onto a piece of film and chemically changed it to capture whatever light was coming through the lens . This can be projected with light again to a massive screen and holds massive amounts of detail and the " resolution can hold more than 1080p . However when you watch E.T it is sharper but still does n't look like present day sharpness . It just has an 80 's feel to the footage . This is not because of the age of the original film ( it may have an effect ) but it 's actually the lens used . The lenses back then are n't as sharp as they are now and that is why E.T wo n't be 1080p digital sharp like todays cameras . The lens actually added a characteristic to the footage . If you want to recreate an 80 's movie the trick is not to use special effects but to actually use an 80 's lens on a brand new camera . So because of the new lenses of today the E.T Blu - Ray may actually be the sharpest version every seen by anyone ever , even more sharper than the original cinema release because the cinema projector lens was n't as sharp . If Steven Spielberg had today 's lenses back then E.T would be as sharp as movies are today .