Question: Why do all Bollywood movies have songs in them ? My roommate is trying to get me into them , but even the serious ones , like ones with a murderer and that ... all of them have songs .. I do n't get it . Please explain like I'm five.

Answer: Indian music has a built in pecking - order , not only based on the seniority or ability of musicians but also by drawing a clear distinction between vocal and instrumental music . Vocal music is considered the highest form of music in India because the voice is God - given whereas instruments are man - made , albeit with the explicitly stated aim of trying to sound as close to the human voice as possible . As Indian music has its roots in devotional rituals , and melody is thought to have grown out of specific religious chanting whereby individual syllables and words of sacred verses had to be recited in a strictly prescribed pitch or tone , the human voice was always revered as something that contained immense mystical properties given the ability to evoke a sense of awe in listeners and performers alike . More crucially , although music by itself is said to carry the power to transform human hearts and help listeners connect to larger reality , vocal music has the added advantage of being able to verbalise a given emotion whether as direct praise of God or other deities or saints or as an expression of a specific human sentiment or emotion . Many good vocal compositions carefully match the given poetic sentiment to the actual emotional aspect of the raag in which that poetry is composed . Some compositions have such strong lyrical connotations that even when they ’re played as purely instrumental versions , the original lyrics , although un - sung , appear to be at the forefront of the performance . It ’s worth noting that while vocals are considered superior to all other instruments , ( for the reasons given above ) , there is no particular hierarchy within the array of instruments and all whether string , ( vina , sarod , sitar ) wind ( flute , shehnai , etc . ) or struck - string ( santoor ) , are considered equal with the further distinction that instruments which can produce melody are , on the whole , considered superior to percussion instruments . Percussion solos are a very recent phenomenon in Indian music and percussion ’s traditional role has always been to play “ second fiddle ” to a vocalist or instrumental soloist . But where newcomers to Indian music are concerned , the exact reverse order seems to apply in terms of relating to a new and strange musical tradition . They are , generally , first attracted by rhythm ( always easier to understand ) , secondly by melody in its instrumental variety and only very gradually do they admit to being drawn into vocal music – language always proving something of a barrier . Even so , one of the most phenomenally successful vocalists of our time , the late Ustad Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan , ( performer of qawwali – the music of South Asian Sufis or Islamic mystics which is heavily text - led ) sang with such a dynamic and charismatic confidence that a very large number of those who packed the concert halls for his performances around the world were unperturbed by not knowing the language(s ) of his songs – a clear case of music being able to transcend language