Question: What 's the big deal about Vulkan API ? From what I understand it is one of the Graphics APIs analogous to OpenGL or DirectX. Why was there a need for another one and how does it actually change things for developers or consumers ? Please explain like I'm five.

Answer: I wrote this lengthy post in another thread and I figure it might be of help to you as well . ---- The drivers you install ( or that are bundled with your OS ) allow software to interface with your hardware , in this case your GPU , so that they can actually use it for its intended purpose of accelerated rendering . The driver gives you method calls to work with , like " load this texture " or " draw this there " or " draw the contents of your framebuffer to the display " . Except that , seeing as GPUs and all the various controllers and coprocessors they ship with are different from each other , some kind of standard needs to exist so that the developer does n't need to build his application for every GPU out there ( as used to be the case in the DOS days ) . The job of the graphics API is to ensure that the functions supplied with the drivers are always more or less the same . The API is a specification , in other words a list of functions , with specific names , arguments , return values and behaviours that need to be copied , and precisely so . It is n't a piece of software in itself . The code that actually fulfills the expected behavior behind these functions is entirely left to the driver developer . DirectX and OpenGL are high level APIs . High level here refers to the level of abstraction , or just how extensive the individual functions are . DirectX 12 and Vulkan are low level , meaning that their functions are designed to do much less , which has its advantages and its disadvantages . A high level API is easier to develop software with . It will necessitate less code and less understanding of the underlying hardware . The downside is that it has more overhead ( by doing more tasks it is thus slower ) and offers less flexibility and room for optimization . The low level API is harder to develop software with , because the functions do a lot less . DirectX and OpenGL were old , inefficient and developed for hardware and practices different from those which exist now . We have multi - core processors now . We have extremely well developed commercial engines . Most developers do not write DirextX or OpenGL code directly anymore . Instead , they license the aforementioned engines , which make development even easier . That , and tasks which were at the time expected to be performed by a single core CPU are now able to be ran on the GPU and much more efficiently so . Vulkan and DirectX are designed so that not only will the CPU perform less tasks overall , it will also be able to distribute the workload to its multiple cores . The added complexity of writing software with DX12 and Vulkan will most likely be in the hand of the commercial engine developers , who have proven their ability to understand complex mathematical concepts and the way GPUs function and squeeze every bit of performance out of them . In short , there is no more need for high level graphics APIs anymore , and they need to be replaced . DX12 and Vulkan are highly similar and attempt to accomplish the same goals but Vulkan is not developed and administered by a single company , nor is it locked to only two platforms like DX12 . This is its main advantage .