Question: Why are so many people in Australia angry ? Everything I read about it say that they 're upset about " numerous issues " , but that does n't really explain much . Explain like I'm five.

Answer: The issue is a series of decisions made by Tony Abbott that many Australians feel make them look like " Rednecks " on the Global stage . Here are some examples : 1 : Tony Abbott sent no one the Summit on climate change which won us the humiliation award as a country by a large group of scientists . He even removed the minister for climate change and dissolved the office in the process . 2 : He has given the green light to cull the shark population off the west coast . Seemingly to reduce the amount of sharks to make the place more of a tourist destination . However , those sharks are part of an eco - system that we largely do n't understand . The funds that were diverted to this were reallocated from improving the standard of living . 3 : He made himself " Minister of Women 's Issues " .... need I explain that ! ? 4 : He has been annoying our nearest neighbours to the north , Indonesia , by crossing into their waters to intercept boats laden with refugees and wither sending them away orarresting them and placing them in detention centres . Recently , rioting and deaths have become a more and more common . Top it off with a severe lack of information about the facilities , conditions and what the process of integration is , if it exists at all , is making Australians question " what is there to hide ? " 5 : Tony Abbott is sexist . 6 : Tony Abbott is Prime Minister and head of the Liberal party . This means financial liberty . Not socialist . Liberal meaning you can make money from anything you want and at the end of the day , it 's every man for himself . At the end of the day , you can be fairly certain he is merely lining his pockets so that he and his children are set for life . Liberal goal achieved . 7 : His party have sent photos to the UNESCO ( World Heritage Listings Association ) that are misleading about the state of the forests in Tasmania . They wish to declassify the area so it can be logged . The entire area is untouched . Australians mostly want that to remain is " mint ' condition . The liberal party thinks lying to get their way is an acceptable strategy . It 's not . 8 : Tony Abbott panders to Gina Rinehart , a mining magnate that inherited her wealth from her father and has fought to keep it from the rest of her family . She has recently said that she disapproves of the latest generation to come into the job market because of they 're " Entitled " behaviour and mind set . This seems " rich " coming from her . Inherited everything ... smooth . 9 : Tony disolved the legislation for Homosexual marriage . It was set up and on probation and several couples married and now their union is no longer recognised by any authority . If something happened to one partner of these unions , then the other would have no rights to what happened to children and property . But , heterosexual couples would . Double standard . 10 : Tony 's arrogant nature , probably because he is a politician or is at least pretending to be . There have been many good and bad politicians in Australia 's history but in the last few years it seems to have run out . It 's become more of a popularity contest and the country is now suffering as a direct result of this . While this , it 's poor Tony 's fault , he is wearing those shoes . In conclusion , Tony Abbott is a cunt .