Question: How were banks created and who owns the money Where do banks have money from ? How it 's possible that there new banks when everyone is in debt . And how can be countries in debt and to who are they paying ? Explain like I'm five.

Answer: How are banks created ? Banks are created by those who have the inclination and the capital to start one . If you have the start - up capital of many hundreds of millions of dollars , you could start one up too . . How do Banks create Money?--- I know it 's a lazy answer , but the [ Money As Debt ] ( URL_0 ) video has a pretty straight forward explanation of the fractional reserve banking system that creates money . ( note , toward the end of the video it no longer deals with explaining how the system works , rather it starts talking about solutions --- so you can take or leave that part ) It is a very easy to understand video that describes a very interesting subject . . Who owns the banks ? Banks are businesses whose stocks are are often traded just like any company . So shareholders ( stockholders ) " own " them in the same way they might own a share of any company like Apple or Coca - Cola . ( a stock is a " piece of paper " saying you basically own a small portion of the company ) Banks are overseen by an entity called the Federal Reserve Bank . It works hand in glove with the commercial ( regular ) banks and the US Treasury and serves as a go - between between them to make sure the banks are making money and the economy does n't collapse . It does this primarily by setting ( raising and lowering ) the interest rates that banks use to lend each other money . This in turn , indirectly but dramatically affects the rates regular banks ask their borrowers to pay , as well as the rate of Treasury bonds . I do n't want to get too far out in the sticks here , so I 'll just leave it at that . . Who owns the Federal Reserve ? Not you . The Fed has shares that are owned solely by its member banks . It is a condition of membership and the Fed operates as a non - profit entity . . Please note -- not all people who think the system is fucked are Ron Paul supporters ( though I do agree with him that it 's a fucked system ) . Also note--- while being out of debt is ideal from a personal household standpoint , it 's not necessarily a bad thing for a country , as weird as that may sound . . Also , also note-- I tried to give a dispassionate explanation . A dispassionate explanation ≠ a lack of outrage on my part . ---EDIT : changed a typo from " good " to " bad "