Question: CSS I 've tried , I really have , but i just ca n't grasp what it is or how to work with it ... Please explain like I'm five.

Answer: HTML starts off like a plain text file . It does n't even specify what fonts to use , what colors , et cetera . You add little things called " tags " into it to separate it into different parts . For example : < h1 > This is the first header at the top of the page . It is usually the biggest text on the page . It is some content within a " h1 " tag . < /h1 > < h2 > This is the second header , usually for the top of individual sections of the page . It is usually a little smaller , and is some content within a " h2 " tag . < /h2 > < p > This is a paragraph of text . It is a few sentences within a " p " tag . < /p > Now imagine a website . Imagine a paragraph within that website . You might think in your head " I want all paragraphs on my site to be 16 point Helvetica . I want all paragraphs to have a blue background , with black text , with half - inch margins at the top , and quarter - inch margins on the sides . " CSS is basically a list of characteristics that you want to apply to every item of a certain type . If you want all paragraphs to be 16 - point Helvetica , and to have half - inch margins at top and quarter - inch margins at the sides , you might write something like this : p { font - size : 16pt ; font - family : helvetica ; background - color : blue ; color : black ; margin - top : .5 in ; margin - left : .25 in ; margin - right : .25 in ; } You write that CSS information in another text file and you tell your html file to always get style information from the CSS file . You can have multiple different pages that point to one CSS file , so they all get their information from that CSS file . Every HTML file that uses that CSS file will have paragraphs with black text , a blue background , half - inch margins at the top , and quarter - inch margins at the sides . Because multiple HTML files can all use the same CSS file , you save a whole bunch of space . You do n't have to specify that information over and over again on each page . It 's kind of like how when you 're describing someone to someone else , you do n't have to tell people " He 's going to have one head , two arms , two legs , two hands , and two feet . " All of that information is in your CSS(a.k.a . your " stylesheet " ) for people . Because all " people " have those same characteristics .